<h1 class='margin10'>Here's What We Found:</h1><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>Article URL</h5><p class=card-text> https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/no-one-has-a-leg-up-in-wide-open-2020-presidential-field-democrats-jockey-to-define-their-party--and-gain-an-advantage/2018/05/12/42ba34f2-5547-11e8-9c91-7dab596e8252_story.html?utm_term=.c68c14405246</p></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>Author</h5><p class=card-text>Michael Scherer</p></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>Article</h5><p class=card-text>Some Article Text Some Article Text Some Article Text Some Article Text </p><a href=haha class=card-link>This a Link</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>With an eye on 2020, Democrats jockey to define their party, and gain an advantage</h5><p class=card-text>The future of the Democratic Party has been booking late night TV gigs, waking up for morning drive-time radio and showing up at watering holes in rural counties to try out new material.
Before the start of a 2020 Democratic presidential campaign, at least 25 candidates - mayors, governors, entrepreneurs, members of the House and Senate - have hit the road to workshop their vision, experiment with catchphrases and test policy ideas that could keep President Donald Trump from winning a second term.
Many deny that their actions have anything to do with a coming presidential run, but they unmistakably play off the chords of campaigns past, seeking a way to break through a political maw that has been focused more on the latest actions of the president and the coming midterm elections.
"I don't want to speak to Democrats only," says Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., who recently appeared on ABC's Jimmy Kimmel Live to riff on the Founding Fathers' vision of patriotism and love. "I'm talking to us as Americans, about how this is a moral moment."


            
            
  In front of policy conferences and campaign rallies for congressional candidates, former vice president Joe Biden has been updating his own paeons to the middle class, repeating his thematic refrain that "America is all about possibilities." Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., has broadened her calls for people to "fight back," and Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., has demanded that "we must speak truth."
"This is like taking the play to Topeka and New Haven to see what works before you even get to Broadway," said David Axelrod, a former strategist for President Barack Obama who hosts would-be candidates for public forums at the University of Chicago. "The season hasn't opened."
At stake in the rehearsals is nothing less than the future of the Democratic Party, which has yet to congeal around a positive vision. Party leaders privately talk about the next two years as a potential pivot point for what it means to be a Democrat, like the tumultuous 1968 Democratic convention or the business-friendly realignment that followed President Bill Clinton's nomination in 1992.
"The Democratic trajectory right now is more uncertain than it has been since I started in politics in the 80s," said Simon Rosenberg, a longtime Democratic strategist at NDN, a think tank. "And I think no one has a leg up."


        
            The questions are big ones - of style and policy - that can only be answered in the story told by the candidate who eventually captures the party's imagination.
Some promote a vision of a youthful future, while others speak of their own wizened experience. Some use the language of the private sector, while others have begun to promote guaranteeing public sector jobs for all unemployed Americans. Some speak of class as the defining American divide, while others focus first on racial and gender inequality. Some are brawlers ready to take on Trump, while others pose as healers to call the country back to better angels.
They have begun to grapple with the sense that Trump's presence has erased all of the old rules, even for Democrats, and that the party should consider looking outside the standard roster of governors and senators - perhaps to a businesswoman-entertainer like Oprah Winfrey, who has so far resisted calls for her to run, or a mayor.
"My theory of this election is you are going to basically have a swing back," said Julián Castro, the former mayor of San Antonio and secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who has been traveling the country talking about "expanding opportunity." "People are going to look for someone who can unite the country instead of divide it, someone they can trust."
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who will speak Sunday at a graduation in the first primary state of New Hampshire, has focused on another theme, the wisdom that can be brought to Washington from those working outside the dysfunctional city. "At this moment you have leadership in D.C. that defines itself by dividing us and subtracting us," he says. "In local communities we still are decent people who are about the politics of addition and multiplication."
Starbucks executive chairman Howard Schultz, a businessman who has long considered a presidential run, has recently started a personal office as he pulls back from day-to-day control of the company. His public speeches drift far afield from the coffee business.
"This is not a time for isolationism, for nationalism," he said Thursday at the Atlantic Council. "This is not a time to build walls. This is a time to build bridges."
The potential candidates preach both national and party unity, decrying the "false choices" between appealing to white Midwestern voters and the more diverse and urban Democratic base. But in the next breath, they sometimes demonstrate how many different routes there are to reach that goal of restitching the Democratic coalition ripped apart by Trump.
"The economy doesn't have a good answer for people who haven't gone to college, and it hasn't had an answer for a long time," explains Center for American Progress president Neera Tanden, who will host at least 10 potential candidates Tuesday for a policy conference. "Trump proved a wrong answer beats no answer."
Late last month, Harris stopped by the the Breakfast Club, one of the biggest morning shows in urban radio, to discuss the importance of blacks voting in the recent victory of Sen. Doug Jones, D-Ala. "The math is that a white Democrat won in the south because of black women," she said, simplifying a close election that was turned by many different factors.


                      
                        
  
                          

      
    
      
  
    
Dan Elliott / AP


      Gov. Steve Bullock, D-Mt., left, speaks as Gov. John Hickenlooper, D-Colo., looks on at the 21st Century Energy Transition Symposium at Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colo., on Oct. 31, 2017. Mayors and governors have been talking up their own records of innovation in the states.


Gov. Steve Bullock, D-Mt., left, speaks as Gov. John Hickenlooper, D-Colo., looks on at the 21st Century Energy Transition Symposium at Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colo., on Oct. 31, 2017. Mayors and governors have been talking up their own records of innovation in the states.
 (Dan Elliott / AP)


  

  
A couple weeks earlier, Montana Gov. Steven Bullock, D, traveled the back roads of Iowa, boasting that 20 percent of his voters in 2016 also marked Trump on the same ballot. "I show up, as simple as that is," he said in an interview. "I don't have the luxury of going places where people think exactly like me."
Mayors and governors have been talking up their own liberal records of innovation in the states, aiming to contrast their competence to the dysfunction of Washington. "We have demonstrated that a policy ecosystem of progressive economic development works," said Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, D, who has been traveling the country as chair of the Democratic Governors Association. "We have blown up the Republican trickle down message of Donald Trump."
Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., who is working on a book due out next year, has anchored his pitch in a broad vision of Democrats as "the party of everyday life" - a good job, health care and education included. "We've got to realize that a lot of this has to do with style," he said. "That should be fairly obvious - we have a president who doesn't even have an ideology, only a style."
Others like Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper have begun to speak about the failures of past administrations, as the party struggles to identify an economic message in an age of low unemployment, strong market performance and continued kitchen table insecurity.
"I think we also have to not be afraid to look back with an honest eye," he said, of the effects of global trade. "What happened in the 1990s with outsourcing was really government malpractice. As a country, we didn't deliver for our citizens."
Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who hails from Youngstown, has argued for a focus on the economic threat of China, while cautioning against new government programs that displace the private sector. "We can be hostile to monopolies, oligarchies and concentrations of wealth," he said. "But we can't be hostile to capitalism."
After the 2016 election, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., announced that he had been "humiliated" that the Democratic Party could not appeal to the white working class "where I came from."



      
    
      
  
    
Elizabeth Robertson / AP


      Candidate for Pa. lieutenant governor John Fetterman, left, welcomes Bernie Sanders to the stage during a John Fetterman for lieutenant governor rally in Philadelphia., Pa., May 4, 2018.


Candidate for Pa. lieutenant governor John Fetterman, left, welcomes Bernie Sanders to the stage during a John Fetterman for lieutenant governor rally in Philadelphia., Pa., May 4, 2018.
 (Elizabeth Robertson / AP)


  

  
Since then, he has tried to focus more on healing the rifts that emerged between him and minority communities. It has been a sometimes rocky road, as when he awkwardly described Obama as a "charismatic individual" during a speech in Mississippi on the anniversary of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination.
Sanders says he has been learning since the last campaign. "The situations in African-American communities are obviously very different than they are in Vermont," he said. "What I learned was that we have a criminal justice system that is not only broken, but is significantly racist."
Warren has also been reaching out to the black community in an effort to stamp out the impression, left from the 2016 campaign, that the financial regulatory issues at the core of her life's work are not a central cause of minority communities.
"I know I haven't personally experienced the struggles of African-American families, but I am here to say that no one can ignore what is happening in this country," she said in a recent address to the Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network, which began with a discussion of housing policy and ended with her calling out, "Can I have an amen on that?"
Party leaders have also been floating a set of new policy ideas, which go beyond the 2016 promises of expanded health-care coverage, tuition relief for college students and more infrastructure spending. Booker has introduced a bill to both legalize marijuana and expunge the records of those with marijuana possession convictions. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., has put forward a bill that would allow the U.S. Postal Service to take on banking functions, including short-term loans to undermine the costly payday loan industry.
Several potential candidates, including Booker, Gillibrand, Harris and Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., have signed on to a bill that would create a pilot program, offering guaranteed jobs paying at least $15 an hour in 15 high-unemployment communities. Sanders has said he is working on his own version of the same program.
Others have charted more moderate paths. "I love Bernie, but I'm not Bernie Sanders. I don't think 500 billionaires are the reason we're in trouble," Biden said in a speech May 8 at the Brookings Institution, in which he proposed free community college tuition, limits on worker noncompete clauses and efforts to broaden the geographic reach of venture capital.
Most of the potential candidates, including other outsiders such as entrepreneur Mark Cuban, have said they will wait until after the midterm elections to make any announcements about their 2020 plans. "It's not about Donald Trump," Cuban wrote in an email explaining his view of the coming campaign. "He is who he is and everyone knows who he is."
Others, such as Hickenlooper, say they really don't know if they are ready to put their families through the two-year strain of a campaign. For the moment, they still have time to work that out.
"What did St. Teresa say?" Hickenlooper asked rhetorically, referencing a quote often attributed to the saint. " 'There are more tears shed over answered prayers.' "
The Washington Post's David Weigel contributed to this report.</p><a href=http://www.dailypress.com/tidewater-review/news/nationworld/ct-democrats-future-2020-20180512-story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>‘No one has a leg up’: In wide-open 2020 presidential field, Democrats jockey to define their party — and gain an advantage</h5><p class=card-text>The future of the Democratic Party has been booking late night TV gigs, waking up for morning drive-time radio and showing up at watering holes in rural counties to try out new material.
 Before the start of a 2020 Democratic presidential campaign, at least 25 candidates — mayors, governors, entrepreneurs, members of the House and Senate — have hit the road to workshop their vision, experiment with catchphrases and test policy ideas that could keep President Trump from winning a second term. 
 Many deny that their actions have anything to do with a coming presidential run, but they unmistakably play off the chords of campaigns past, seeking a way to break through a political maw that has been focused more on the latest actions of the president and the coming midterm elections. 
 “I don’t want to speak to Democrats only,” says Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), who recently appeared on ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel Live to riff on the Founding Fathers’ vision of patriotism and love. “I’m talking to us as Americans, about how this is a moral moment.”
 In front of policy conferences and campaign rallies for congressional candidates, former vice president Joe Biden has been updating his own paeons to the middle class, repeating his thematic refrain that “America is all about possibilities.” Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has broadened her calls for people to “fight back,” and Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) has demanded that “we must speak truth.” 
 “This is like taking the play to Topeka and New Haven to see what works before you even get to Broadway,” said David Axelrod, a former strategist for President Barack Obama who hosts would-be candidates for public forums at the University of Chicago. “The season hasn’t opened.”
 At stake in the rehearsals is nothing less than the future of the Democratic Party, which has yet to congeal around a positive vision. Party leaders privately talk about the next two years as a potential pivot point for what it means to be a Democrat, like the tumultuous 1968 Democratic convention or the business-friendly realignment that followed President Bill Clinton’s nomination in 1992.
 “The Democratic trajectory right now is more uncertain than it has been since I started in politics in the 80s,” said Simon Rosenberg, a longtime Democratic strategist at NDN, a think tank. “And I think no one has a leg up.”
 The questions are big ones — of style and policy — that can only be answered in the story told by the candidate who eventually captures the party’s imagination. 
 Some promote a vision of a youthful future, while others speak of their own wizened experience. Some use the language of the private sector, while others have begun to promote guaranteeing public sector jobs for all unemployed Americans. Some speak of class as the defining American divide, while others focus first on racial and gender inequality. Some are brawlers ready to take on Trump, while others pose as healers to call the country back to better angels.
 They have begun to grapple with the sense that Trump’s presence has erased all of the old rules, even for Democrats, and that the party should consider looking outside the standard roster of governors and senators — perhaps to a businesswoman-entertainer like Oprah Winfrey, who has so far resisted calls for her to run, or a mayor.
 “My theory of this election is you are going to basically have a swing back,” said Julián Castro, the former mayor of San Antonio and secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who has been traveling the country talking about “expanding opportunity.” “People are going to look for someone who can unite the country instead of divide it, someone they can trust.” 
 Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who will speak Sunday at a graduation in the first primary state of New Hampshire, has focused on another theme, the wisdom that can be brought to Washington from those working outside the dysfunctional city. “At this moment you have leadership in D.C. that defines itself by dividing us and subtracting us,” he says. “In local communities we still are decent people who are about the politics of addition and multiplication.”
 Starbucks executive chairman Howard Schultz, a businessman who has long considered a presidential run, has recently started a personal office as he pulls back from day-to-day control of the company. His public speeches drift far afield from the coffee business. 
 “This is not a time for isolationism, for nationalism,” he said Thursday at the Atlantic Council. “This is not a time to build walls. This is a time to build bridges.” 
 The potential candidates preach both national and party unity, decrying the “false choices” between appealing to white Midwestern voters and the more diverse and urban Democratic base. But in the next breath, they sometimes demonstrate how many different routes there are to reach that goal of restitching the Democratic coalition ripped apart by Trump.
 “The economy doesn’t have a good answer for people who haven’t gone to college, and it hasn’t had an answer for a long time,” explains Center for American Progress president Neera Tanden, who will host at least 10 potential candidates Tuesday for a policy conference. “Trump proved a wrong answer beats no answer.” 
 Late last month, Harris stopped by the the Breakfast Club, one of the biggest morning shows in urban radio, to discuss the importance of blacks voting in the recent victory of Sen. Doug Jones (D-Ala.). “The math is that a white Democrat won in the south because of black women,” she said, simplifying a close election that was turned by many different factors.
 A couple weeks earlier, Montana Gov. Steven Bullock (D) traveled the back roads of Iowa, boasting that 20 percent of his voters in 2016 also marked Trump on the same ballot. “I show up, as simple as that is,” he said in an interview. “I don’t have the luxury of going places where people think exactly like me.” 
 Mayors and governors have been talking up their own liberal records of innovation in the states, aiming to contrast their competence to the dysfunction of Washington. “We have demonstrated that a policy ecosystem of progressive economic development works,” said Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D), who has been traveling the country as chair of the Democratic Governors Association. “We have blown up the Republican trickle down message of Donald Trump.” 
 Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., who is working on a book due out next year, has anchored his pitch in a broad vision of Democrats as “the party of everyday life” — a good job, health care and education included. “We’ve got to realize that a lot of this has to do with style,” he said. “That should be fairly obvious — we have a president who doesn’t even have an ideology, only a style.” 
  Others like Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper have begun to speak about the failures of past administrations, as the party struggles to identify an economic message in an age of low unemployment, strong market performance and continued kitchen table insecurity. 
 “I think we also have to not be afraid to look back with an honest eye,” he said, of the effects of global trade. “What happened in the 1990s with outsourcing was really government malpractice. As a country, we didn’t deliver for our citizens.” 
 Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), who hails from Youngstown, has argued for a focus on the economic threat of China, while cautioning against new government programs that displace the private sector. “We can be hostile to monopolies, oligarchies and concentrations of wealth,” he said. “But we can’t be hostile to capitalism.” 
 After the 2016 election, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) announced that he had been “humiliated” that the Democratic Party could not appeal to the white working class “where I came from.” 
 Since then, he has tried to focus more on healing the rifts that emerged between him and minority communities. It has been a sometimes rocky road, as when he awkwardly described Obama as a “charismatic individual” during a speech in Mississippi on the anniversary of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination. 
 Sanders says he has been learning since the last campaign. “The situations in African American communities are obviously very different than they are in Vermont,” he said. “What I learned was that we have a criminal justice system that is not only broken, but is significantly racist.”
 Warren has also been reaching out to the black community in an effort to stamp out the impression, left from the 2016 campaign, that the financial regulatory issues at the core of her life’s work are not a central cause of minority communities. 
 “I know I haven’t personally experienced the struggles of African American families, but I am here to say that no one can ignore what is happening in this country,” she said in a recent address to the Rev. Al Sharpton’s National Action Network, which began with a discussion of housing policy and ended with her calling out, “Can I have an amen on that?” 
 Party leaders have also been floating a set of new policy ideas, which go beyond the 2016 promises of expanded health-care coverage, tuition relief for college students and more infrastructure spending. Booker has introduced a bill to both legalize marijuana and expunge the records of those with marijuana possession convictions. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) has put forward a bill that would allow the U.S. Postal Service to take on banking functions, including short-term loans to undermine the costly payday loan industry. 
 Several potential candidates, including Booker, Gillibrand, Harris and Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) have signed on to a bill that would create a pilot program, offering guaranteed jobs paying at least $15 an hour in 15 high-unemployment communities. Sanders has said he is working on his own version of the same program. 
 Others have charted more moderate paths. “I love Bernie, but I’m not Bernie Sanders. I don’t think 500 billionaires are the reason we’re in trouble,” Biden said in a speech May 8 at the Brookings Institution, in which he proposed free community college tuition, limits on worker noncompete clauses and efforts to broaden the geographic reach of venture capital. 
 Most of the potential candidates, including other outsiders such as entrepreneur Mark Cuban, have said they will wait until after the midterm elections to make any announcements about their 2020 plans. “It’s not about Donald Trump,” Cuban wrote in an email explaining his view of the coming campaign. “He is who he is and everyone knows who he is.” 
 Others, such as Hickenlooper, say they really don’t know if they are ready to put their families through the two-year strain of a campaign. For the moment, they still have time to work that out.
 “What did St. Teresa say?” Hickenlooper asked rhetorically, referencing a quote often attributed to the saint. “ ‘There are more tears shed over answered prayers.’ ” 
   David Weigel contributed to this report.</p><a href=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/no-one-has-a-leg-up-in-wide-open-2020-presidential-field-democrats-jockey-to-define-their-party--and-gain-an-advantage/2018/05/12/42ba34f2-5547-11e8-9c91-7dab596e8252_story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>GOP primaries gauge the anti-establishment fervor Trump helped unleash</h5><p class=card-text>Republican primary voters in West Virginia and Indiana are set to shape the future of Donald Trump’s anti-establishment political revolt on Tuesday, while testing the president’s own ability to steer the passions he helped unleash.
 Don Blankenship, a former West Virginia coal baron who was convicted of conspiring to violate mine safety regulations, has been surging in several recent polls, despite unified resistance from elected Republican leaders in Washington, including Trump. The president told West Virginia voters to reject Blankenship in a tweet on Monday. 
 “Tomorrow, West Virginia will send the swamp a message — no one, and I mean no one, will tell us how to vote,” Blankenship responded, in a clear echo of the president’s rhetoric. “I am Trumpier than Trump, and this morning proves it.” 
 Blankenship is one of two wealthy self-funding businessman, like Trump, who have emerged with unexpected strength in a primary season that has played out like a televised game show with the singular goal of demonstrating fealty to Trump and fury at the nation’s political elites. 
 “That dynamic that elected Donald Trump that I thought was going to dissipate after 2016 elections is still there,” said Republican pollster Jim McLaughlin, who is working on other 2018 races. 
 In Indiana, the ascendant candidate is Mike Braun, the founder of a warehouse and distribution company who voted in the state’s Democratic primaries until 2012. Just like Blankenship, he is running against two more well-established GOP incumbents, who have spent much of the campaign attacking each other, as they calculated the outsider would face a traditional ceiling of support. 
 The outcome of the contests could help shape not just the future of the Republican Party but the odds of Democratic control of the Senate. Both of Tuesday’s contests are in states where Trump won by wide margins and Democratic senators are seeking reelection. 
 Democratic incumbents, meanwhile, are facing no serious primary challenges and few potential upsets in swing seats. The closest thing to a left-flank attack will play out Tuesday in Ohio’s gubernatorial primary, where former U.S. representative Dennis Kucinich (D) is running against Richard Cordray, the former head of the Consumer Financial Protection Agency. Polls suggest a Cordray win.
 Republicans, meanwhile, remain concerned that a Blankenship victory will spell disaster in November. On Sunday, Trump spoke with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), who urged the president to warn that Blankenship would not be able to beat Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) in the general election, according to two people familiar with the discussions who spoke on the condition of anonymity to share private conversations.
 Blankenship was convicted of conspiring to violate mine safety regulations after an explosion at one of his company’s mines killed 29 people in 2010.
 Privately, Republican leaders have discussed cutting ties with Blankenship should he win the primary, in an effort to protect other GOP candidates from the controversy that surrounds him. 
 “No way!” Trump tweeted about Blankenship beating Manchin, before referencing the failed 2017 Alabama Senate campaign of Roy Moore. “Remember Alabama.” 
 Blankenship also referred to Moore’s loss on Monday. After the president’s tweet, Blankenship said that he was probably more conservative than Trump and would not have backed the $1.3 trillion spending bill because it added to the deficit. 
 “We all really like President Trump’s policies, but we know that he doesn’t get things right,” Blankenship said in a paid appearance on a local community-access television station. “He recommended that people vote for a guy that was basically accused of pedophilia in Alabama.”
 Blankenship is no stranger to such rhetorical combat. He has called McConnell “Cocaine Mitch” in campaign ads, a reference to a drug-smuggling bust on a ship owned by his father-in-law’s family, and attacked the “China family” of his wife, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao. He has also used the words “Negro” and “China people,” while also arguing that he was not making racially motivated appeals. 
  Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) said he hopes Blankenship doesn’t prevail, “but if he does, I think you’ll see a lot of Republicans giving a contribution to Joe Manchin. I certainly will.”
 “Let’s just hope and pray that doesn’t happen,” said Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) 
 Many Republicans cut ties to Alabama Senate candidate Moore, after The Washington Post reported on accusations that he had inappropriate sexual contact with teenage girls when he was in his 30s. 
 McConnell, who prides himself on being unruffled by crises, has been making light of the Blankenship predicament in private. With a few friends, according to two people, he has begun answering his phone with the moniker “Cocaine Mitch.”
 The Indiana Senate contest has similarly hinged on the ability of candidates to channel Trump’s unconventional style. Rep. Todd Rokita (R-Ind.), a former Indiana secretary of state, has been campaigning in a military surplus Humvee painted with the stripes of the American flag. Rep. Luke Messer (R-Ind.), a former lobbyist and state GOP executive director, runs a clip of Trump’s inauguration in his campaign ads. 
 But the standout has been Braun, who has campaigned as a non-politician, forgoing the traditional sport coat and tie during debates while embracing Trump’s populist rhetoric. 
 “Politicians put Mexico before Muncie, Beijing before Bloomington,” the narrator says in one of his ads, referencing two Indiana cities. Unlike in West Virginia, Republican leaders have not expressed concerns over Braun facing Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) in November.
 In both states, the Republican candidates have almost no policy disagreements. They all support the Trump agenda, including stricter immigration enforcement, a southern border wall, the recent tax-cut bill, and they vow to fight new gun regulations and limit access to abortion. They all describe themselves as conservatives, and have called for an end to special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election. 
  In some races, Republicans have tried with little success to encourage Democratic cannibalism. A super PAC has taken a similar tack in the state’s gubernatorial primary, running a TV ad that warns Democrats that Democratic front-runner Cordray once had an “A” rating from the National Rifle Association.
 By contrast, Republicans have grown increasingly concerned about the primary for the open House seat outside Columbus, which was vacated by a moderate Republican who left for the private sector. It has turned into a proxy war between the House Freedom Caucus, which backs business executive Melanie Leneghan, and the moderate Main Street Partnership, which backs state Sen. Troy Balderson.
 Both candidates are tacking hard to the right. “President Obama nearly destroyed the America we love,” Leneghan says in one ad. “With God’s grace, we elected President Trump, and he needs our help.”
 In his own TV spots, Balderson offers the same agenda. “I’ll end sanctuary cities to stop illegals from taking our jobs, fight alongside Trump to implement his agenda and use conservative grit to build the darn wall,” he says.
 In 2016, Trump won 53 percent of the vote in the district — less than he won in the Pennsylvania district seized by Rep. Conor Lamb (D-Pa.) this year. Republicans are nervous about Leneghan making it to the Aug. 7 general election, worried that she will be seen as too extreme for the district. 
 Democrats, meanwhile, have had more success interfering with Republican primaries. In West Virginia, a Democratic super PAC called Duty and Country has spent more than $1.8 million attacking Blankenship’s rivals, state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey and Rep. Evan Jenkins (R), with most of the money directed at Jenkins, according to a person tracking the spending. Another group, Mountain Families PAC, which was founded by a Republican lawyer with ties to McConnell, launched a separate television campaign against Blankenship.
 Until this weekend, Blankenship’s two rivals had focused on criticizing each other, with large television campaigns of negative ads. Blankenship also benefited from his recent debate performances and unconventional campaign ads. Blankenship’s grumbling, deadpan delivery and defiant pose marked a sharp departure from typical Senate candidates.
 Blankenship’s wealth has also proved an advantage. In the final week before the primary, Blankenship spent more in television advertising than the Jenkins and Morrisey campaigns combined, according to the person tracking the spending.
 During a brief press availability on Monday in Charleston, W.Va., a reporter asked Blankenship if he really believed McConnell was connected to the drug trade. 
 “No,” Blankenship answered, “But I believe that if you’re going to hold me responsible for 7,000 people in 119 coal mines, that hauling cocaine on the high seas when you only have eight or 10 ships is something he should be focused on avoiding. And I think it’s something the public should be aware of.”
  Josh Dawsey in Washington and Dan Heyman in Charleston, W.Va., contributed to this report. 
 Read more at PowerPost</p><a href=https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/gop-primaries-gauge-the-anti-establishment-fervor-trump-helped-unleash/2018/05/07/d0b50338-5216-11e8-abd8-265bd07a9859_story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>West Virginia GOP candidate says McConnell created jobs for ‘China people’</h5><p class=card-text>Former Massey Energy CEO and U.S. Senate candidate Don Blankenship speaks during a town hall to kick off his campaign in Logan, W.Va., on Jan. 18, 2018. (Steve Helber/AP/file)
 
   Republican Senate candidate Don Blankenship stepped up his unconventional attacks on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Thursday with a new ad that accuses him of creating “millions of jobs for China people.”
 With a deadpan delivery and a defiant attitude that has become his trademark, the former coal baron focused his onslaught on the family of McConnell’s wife, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, which owns an international shipping business.
 Blankenship also repeated his recent nickname for McConnell, “Cocaine Mitch,” an apparent reference to a seizure of drugs on one of Chao’s family’s ships.
 “The war to drain the swamp and create jobs for West Virginia people has begun,” Blankenship says, in reference to McConnell (R-Ky.). “I will beat Joe Manchin III and ditch Cocaine Mitch for the sake of the kids.”
 The ad comes as Blankenship’s two main rivals for the Republican nomination, Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-W.Va.) and state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey have focused their fire on each other with just days to go before the May 8 primary.
 Blankenship, by contrast, has redirected his campaign to attack McConnell, whom he blames for a group called Mountain Families PAC, which has been running ads in the state against Blankenship. 
 The last public poll, by Fox News between April 18 and 22, found Jenkins and Morrisey pulling ahead of Blankenship, who is self-funding his campaign.
 Allies of McConnell have expressed concerns for weeks that a primary win by Blankenship would jeopardize Republican hopes of beating incumbent Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) in the general election this fall. 
 Josh Holmes, a former chief of staff to McConnell, responded to the latest ad with an attack on Blankenship. “This clown is a walking, talking case study for the limitation of a prison’s ability to rehabilitate,” Holmes wrote. 
 The former CEO of Massey Energy, Blankenship began the campaign while still on probation, after serving a year in prison for a misdemeanor conviction of conspiring to violate mine safety rules. Twenty-nine miners died at a Blankenship-run mine in Raleigh County, W.Va., in 2010. 
 The president’s son, Donald Trump Jr., weighed into the race as well on Thursday, tweeting that voters in West Virginia should reject Blankenship. “No more fumbles like Alabama,” he wrote, in reference to the failed campaign of Alabama Supreme Court judge Roy Moore. “We need to win in November.” 
 Blankenship responded with a statement that did not reference Trump Jr. by name. “The establishment is doing everything they can to keep Joe Manchin in office,” he wrote. “No other Republican can beat Manchin without my full support and neither Morrisey nor Jenkins is deserving of my support.”
 The younger Trump responded with another tweet. “Ha, now I’m establishment? No, I’m realistic,” he wrote. 
 The cocaine nickname for McConnell appears to be a reference to a 2014 seizure from a ship in Colombia bound for the Netherlands. Colombian officials seized 90 pounds of cocaine.
 The ship came from the maritime company founded by Chao’s father, James Chao, who emigrated from Taiwan. The incident received some attention after the Nation reported it in 2014, about a week before McConnell faced reelection.
 Blankenship’s own fiance and a frequent companion on the campaign trail, Farrah Meiling Hobbs, was also born in China. Blankenship praises her on his campaign website, writing that he enjoys “spending time with my best friend, Meiling.”
 From early in the campaign, Blankenship has boasted of his willingness to go negative. “I think the biggest reason you should have confidence that I would defeat Joe Manchin III is because I will run hostile ads against him,” Blankenship said at a candidate forum in Martinsburg, W.Va., on April 3. “I will tell everyone what Joe Manchin III has done.” 
  Paul Kane contributed to this report. 
 Read more at PowerPost</p><a href=https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/west-virginia-gop-candidate-says-mcconnell-created-jobs-for-china-people/2018/05/03/a3fea38a-4f28-11e8-af46-b1d6dc0d9bfe_story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>Crimes are no longer a disqualification for Republican candidates</h5><p class=card-text>Now-former congressman Michael Grimm (R-N.Y.) outside his Capitol Hill office in 2014. He admitted to hiring undocumented workers, hiding $900,000 from tax authorities and making false statements under oath but thinks Staten Island Republicans should vote him back into office. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)
 
  Former New York congressman Michael Grimm is a felon who has admitted to hiring undocumented workers, hiding $900,000 from tax authorities and making false statements under oath. To hear him tell it, that’s a reason Staten Island Republicans should vote him back into office.
 “It’s almost identical to what the president has been going through,” Grimm says of the federal investigation that led to his imprisonment. “It’s not an accident that under the Obama administration the Justice Department was used politically. And that is all starting to come out.”
 Grimm has uncovered a new reality in the constantly changing world of Republican politics: Criminal convictions, once seen as career-enders, are no longer disqualifying. In the era of President Trump, even time spent in prison can be turned into a positive talking point, demonstrating a candidate’s battle scars in a broader fight against what he perceives as liberal corruption.
 In a startling shift from “law-and-order Republicans,” Trump has attacked some branches of law enforcement, especially those pursuing white-collar malfeasance, as his allies and former campaign officials are ensnared in various investigations.
 Following his lead, Republican Senate candidates with criminal convictions in West Virginia and Arizona have cast themselves as victims of the Obama administration’s legal overreach. Another former Trump adviser who has pleaded guilty to a felony has also become an in-demand surrogate, as Republicans jump at the chance to show their opposition to special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential campaign.
 “Here’s a general rule of thumb: Lawmakers should not be law breakers,” said Susan Del Percio, a New York GOP consultant who advised Grimm in 2010 but opposes his candidacy. “I guess it’s a different political norm we are facing today.”
 Former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who is awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to a felony count of lying to the FBI, has become an unexpected star on the Republican campaign trail, with a planned appearance May 6 in Montana for Senate candidate Troy Downing. He plans to shoot skeet, dine with donors and hold a rally in the state, where select VIPs will be offered a chance to take their picture with him.
 A retired Army general, Flynn faces up to five years in prison after he admitted to making false statements about his contacts with Russian officials and his work for the government of Turkey. “It is time to stand up for our #American Heroes,” Downing wrote when he announced the event, shortly after Trump sent out a tweet suggesting again that the Justice Department had treated Flynn unfairly.
 In West Virginia, former coal baron Don Blankenship, who calls himself “Trumpier than Trump,” has advertised heavily about what he says is the injustice of his misdemeanor conviction for conspiring to violate mine safety laws, which sent him to prison for a year. Echoing Trump, Blankenship casts himself as a “political prisoner” who was targeted unfairly by the Obama administration after an explosion at one of his mines killed 29 people.
 In Arizona, former Maricopa County sheriff Joe Arpaio is campaigning for Senate, with respectable fundraising and poll numbers, after receiving a pardon from Trump for his conviction on a misdemeanor contempt of court charge for his failure to follow a judicial order to curtail his immigration enforcement efforts.
 Arpaio has compared his prosecution, which he considers politically motivated, to Republican claims that the Obama administration improperly sought warrants to monitor officials connected to the Trump campaign.
 “It’s not something that has affected my campaign,” Arpaio said of his conviction, noting that a recent Magellan Strategies poll found him running second in a three-person race with a 67 percent favorable rating among Republican primary voters.
 The campaigns are playing out in the shadow of a public effort by Trump and his allies to discredit the Justice Department’s investigation of the 2016 election. Trump has called it a “total witch hunt” and called Mueller’s investigators “the most biased group of people.”
 The message is getting through to Trump supporters. A recent NPR-PBS NewsHour-Marist poll found declining support for Mueller and his investigation among Republicans. In the second week of April, 55 percent of Republicans said the investigation was “not fair,” up from 46 percent in March. The same poll found 56 percent of Republicans thought the FBI was biased against the president.
 “The whole world changed when Attorney General (Loretta) Lynch met on the tarmac with former president (Bill) Clinton,” said Michael Caputo, a former adviser to Trump who has been helping the Grimm campaign, referring to the encounter during the inquiry into Hillary Clinton’s use of private emails for business. “The lines between politics and law enforcement have been blurred for a decade, but they are absolutely indistinguishable now.”
  In California, Republican candidate Omar Navarro, 29, who is running against Rep. Maxine Waters (D), has invited Arpaio and Flynn to fundraisers on his behalf, saying both drew large crowds and enabled him to raise more money.
 “When I knock doors, and I knock a lot of different doors and meet a lot of people, and they will see Flynn on my endorsement or they will see Arpaio,” he said. “A lot of people will say that guy was unfairly prosecuted.”
 
 Navarro has legal troubles of his own. He recently pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge related to placing a tracking device on his wife’s car without her knowledge. He said local prosecutors moved forward with their case even after his wife said she did not object to the device, which he says was intended to protect the car against theft.
 “I’m not hear to complain about who has done me wrong, or how unfairly I have been treated or how unfair the entire process has been,” Flynn said at the start of his remarks for Navarro, getting sympathetic laughs from the crowd. “You know, it is what it is.”
  Grimm says if he is elected, he will use his experience to become a “credible voice” in Congress to denounce what he and Trump both call political bias in the Justice Department, particularly in the investigation by Mueller. Early polls in the congressional district that also encompasses a slice of Brooklyn suggests the argument has legs. His opponent, incumbent Rep. Daniel Donovan (R-N.Y.) says he expects the primary fight against Grimm will be tighter than any race he has run.
 Donovan, a former federal prosecutor, rejected Grimm’s comparison of his situation to Trump’s.
 “The president has never been indicted, the president didn’t perjure himself under oath, the president hasn’t confessed to a federal crime,” Donovan said about Grimm’s argument. “I put my record up against his, quote, record.” (In court documents, Grimm admitted to making false statements under oath in a deposition, not perjury, which has a different burden of proof under the law.)
 Grimm, a former FBI agent, does not dispute the facts that led to his guilty plea, which arose from his operation and part-ownership of a Manhattan restaurant.
 But he argues on the campaign trail that the decision by the FBI and federal prosecutors to seek his conviction was a political act, meant to remove him from Congress. He said he should have faced a civil penalty, instead.
 Grimm says only some convicted criminals have a justification to run in a Republican primary.
 “You can’t say a guy that was an ax murderer can use this,” he said. “It has to be that you only were criminalized because of the politicization of the Justice Department.”
 Read more at PowerPost</p><a href=https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/crimes-are-no-longer-a-disqualification-for-republican-candidates/2018/04/30/c64a40ac-4807-11e8-827e-190efaf1f1ee_story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>In private chat with senator, Trump hints at policy shift in Afghanistan - and a return to isolationism</h5><p class=card-text>In the days leading up to a key vote over the fate of his nominee for secretary of state, President Donald Trump found a way to win over one of the biggest skeptics in the Senate.

Sen. Rand Paul, Ky., a rare isolationist Republican, was signaling that he would oppose Trump's pick, then-CIA Director Mike Pompeo, a hawkish former congressman who had backed the Iraq War.

But the more Trump and Paul spoke, including three calls on Monday, the more assured Paul became that the president was moving back toward the non-interventionist world view that Trump had championed on the campaign trail. The conversations left Paul with a particularly enticing notion: that Trump was prepared to end the war in Afghanistan.

"The president told me over and over again in general we're getting the hell out of there," Paul said in an interview Thursday in his Senate office. "I think the president's instincts and inclination are to resolve the Afghan conflict."

The two men discussed no exit dates and did not strike a written agreement, as Trump urged Paul to meet one-on-one with Pompeo and ultimately secured the senator's support ahead of a key Foreign Relations Committee vote that paved the way for confirmation.

It is unclear just how much Trump's private conversations signal a public shift in policy or, rather, if they are just maneuvering by a famously transactional leader who often says what he needs to say to make a deal and then reverses himself. The White House declined to comment for this story, but an official confirmed the outlines of the interactions that Paul described.

Nonetheless, Trump's talks with Paul reflect an area of growing tension between the president, whose instinct is to withdraw from overseas entanglements, and his military, whose leaders think that swift pullouts would spark dangerous instability. In Afghanistan, one indication of the military's nervousness is its eagerness to open peace talks with the Taliban and try to negotiate an end the conflict.

The Trump-Paul conversations also point to an effort by the dovish senator and former Trump rival, long treated by his party as a foreign policy gadfly, to assert influence over a president who chafes at being managed by his advisers and the Republican foreign policy establishment.

The odds are steep for Paul, even as he tries to nudge Trump into being more like Trump, or at least the Trump he came to know on the campaign trail. Paul's efforts have been complicated by a recent spate of attacks in the country, including two bombings Monday that killed at least 25 people. An affiliate of the Islamic State claimed responsibility.

The White House is increasingly full of hawks, such as national security adviser John Bolton, whose views Paul has fiercely opposed. And Trump has long been courted by Paul's foreign policy nemesis in the Senate, Sen. Lindsey O. Graham, R-S.C.

"Senator Paul is an outlier," Graham said.

Despite those disadvantages, there are signs that Trump is increasingly coming around to Paul's message on Afghanistan and a host of other foreign policy issues.

Of late, Trump has bucked his top economic advisers and proposed a broad set of new tariffs on steel, aluminum and Chinese products. He agreed to a meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un without clear concessions from Pyongyang as a precondition.

In March, he shocked the Pentagon and State Department when he went off script at an Ohio event and announced, "We'll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon." Since then commanders have rushed through plans to mop up the remnants of the Islamic State as a fighting force and withdraw U.S. troops over the next six months.

On the campaign trail, Trump blasted Paul as "truly weird" and denigrated his rival's appearance. "I never attacked him on his look," Trump said once of Paul. "And believe me, there is plenty of subject matter right there."

These days, he talks about Paul as a trusted friend, telling aides that on key votes, Paul "won't let us down." He has even praised the senator's golf game.

Paul gets less-positive reviews from White House staffers, who grouse that he is a grandstander who causes them unnecessary headaches and hours of work. "If you think anyone in the White House has an ounce of clout with Rand Paul other than the president, you are wrong," one White House official said. "There is not a single person who can take credit for having a conversation that was successful with Rand Paul except for POTUS."

In their talks last week, Paul said, Trump agreed to reopen discussion about placing a warrant requirement on FBI searches of foreign intelligence data collected under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. The intelligence community fiercely opposes the change, and Paul recently failed to get the new limit written into law.

"I think there is a great deal of sympathy from the president," Paul said, noting Trump's concerns about politicization of the FBI. "We are pushing for a meeting within the next couple of weeks with the president."

Paul said Pompeo also discussed his first big speech to State Department personnel, saying it would sound a note on the failures of U.S. foreign policy over the past several decades, regime change among them. A person familiar with Pompeo's thinking said his views on foreign policy have not changed.

"I can't put words in his mouth," Paul added. "I don't know what [exactly] he would say."</p><a href=http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/ct-trump-afghanistan-policy-20180430-story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>In private chat with senator, Trump hints at policy shift in Afghanistan — and a return to isolationism</h5><p class=card-text>Sen. Rand Paul stands as President Trump arrives to sign an executive order at the White House in October. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)
 
 In the days leading up to a key vote over the fate of his nominee for secretary of state, President Trump found a way to win over one of the biggest skeptics in the Senate.
 Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.), a rare isolationist Republican, was signaling that he would oppose Trump’s pick, then-CIA Director Mike Pompeo, a hawkish former congressman who had backed the Iraq War.
 But the more Trump and Paul spoke, including three calls on Monday, the more assured Paul became that the president was moving back toward the non-interventionist world view that Trump had championed on the campaign trail. The conversations left Paul with a particularly enticing notion: that Trump was prepared to end the war in Afghanistan.
 “The president told me over and over again in general we’re getting the hell out of there,” Paul said in an interview Thursday in his Senate office. “I think the president’s instincts and inclination are to resolve the Afghan conflict.”
 The two men discussed no exit dates and did not strike a written agreement, as Trump urged Paul to meet one-on-one with Pompeo and ultimately secured the senator’s support ahead of a key Foreign Relations Committee vote that paved the way for confirmation.
 It is unclear just how much Trump’s private conversations signal a public shift in policy or, rather, if they are just maneuvering by a famously transactional leader who often says what he needs to say to make a deal and then reverses himself. The White House declined to comment for this story, but an official confirmed the outlines of the interactions that Paul described.
 Nonetheless, Trump’s talks with Paul reflect an area of growing tension between the president, whose instinct is to withdraw from overseas entanglements, and his military, whose leaders think that swift pullouts would spark dangerous instability. In Afghanistan, one indication of the military’s nervousness is its eagerness to open peace talks with the Taliban and try to negotiate an end the conflict.
 The Trump-Paul conversations also point to an effort by the dovish senator and former Trump rival, long treated by his party as a foreign policy gadfly, to assert influence over a president who chafes at being managed by his advisers and the Republican foreign policy establishment.
 The odds are steep for Paul, even as he tries to nudge Trump into being more like Trump, or at least the Trump he came to know on the campaign trail. Paul’s efforts have been complicated by a recent spate of attacks in the country, including two bombings Monday that killed at least 25 people. An affiliate of the Islamic State claimed responsibility.
 The White House is increasingly full of hawks, such as national security adviser John Bolton, whose views Paul has fiercely opposed. And Trump has long been courted by Paul’s foreign policy nemesis in the Senate, Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.).
 “Senator Paul is an outlier,” Graham said.
 Despite those disadvantages, there are signs that Trump is increasingly coming around to Paul’s message on Afghanistan and a host of other foreign policy issues.
 Of late, Trump has bucked his top economic advisers and proposed a broad set of new tariffs on steel, aluminum and Chinese products. He agreed to a meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un without clear concessions from Pyongyang as a precondition.
 In March, he shocked the Pentagon and State Department when he went off script at an Ohio event and announced, “We’ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon.” Since then commanders have rushed through plans to mop up the remnants of the Islamic State as a fighting force and withdraw U.S. troops over the next six months.
 On the campaign trail, Trump blasted Paul as “truly weird” and denigrated his rival’s appearance. “I never attacked him on his look,” Trump said once of Paul. “And believe me, there is plenty of subject matter right there.”
 These days, he talks about Paul as a trusted friend, telling aides that on key votes, Paul “won’t let us down.” He has even praised the senator’s golf game.
 Paul gets less-positive reviews from White House staffers, who grouse that he is a grandstander who causes them unnecessary headaches and hours of work. “If you think anyone in the White House has an ounce of clout with Rand Paul other than the president, you are wrong,” one White House official said. “There is not a single person who can take credit for having a conversation that was successful with Rand Paul except for POTUS.”
 In their talks last week, Paul said, Trump agreed to reopen discussion about placing a warrant requirement on FBI searches of foreign intelligence data collected under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. The intelligence community fiercely opposes the change, and Paul recently failed to get the new limit written into law.
 “I think there is a great deal of sympathy from the president,” Paul said, noting Trump’s concerns about politicization of the FBI. “We are pushing for a meeting within the next couple of weeks with the president.”
    Sen. Rand Paul shakes hands with Mike Pompeo on April 12. (Michael  
 Paul said Pompeo also discussed his first big speech to State Department personnel, saying it would sound a note on the failures of U.S. foreign policy over the past several decades, regime change among them. A person familiar with Pompeo’s thinking said his views on foreign policy have not changed.
 “I can’t put words in his mouth,” Paul added. “I don’t know what [exactly] he would say.”
 But the most consequential parts of the conversations may have concerned Afghanistan, where Trump, known for relying on his gut, has so far accepted an approach that cuts against his original instinct to pull out. The core of the current Afghanistan policy is built on a commitment to end the Obama-era withdrawal timelines and stay in the country until conditions on the ground improve.
 “[The Taliban] are realizing that they can’t just wait us out anymore,” a senior U.S. official in Kabul said in March. “That’s huge.”
 Other senior officials have expressed more doubt about the conflict, which still appears stalemated. To Paul, the president’s private comments reflect a broader impatience with the war strategy inside the administration.
 “We are in the midst of a shifting policy that I don’t think they’ll want to get very specific in the White House — and maybe for good reasons,” Paul said. “If you were to ask, ‘Is the president for resolving the Afghan conflict?’ I think he would say, ‘Yes.’ I think he is just not willing like most people to say, ‘Tomorrow.’ ”
 Others familiar with Trump’s way of doing business are skeptical that the private words mean a shift is imminent.
 “My first reaction is to not quite believe the president’s statements,” said Michael O’Hanlon, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, who follows Afghanistan. “How many times has he said we’re leaving Iraq and Syria, and then it doesn’t happen.”
 The question is whether Paul’s influence will convince Trump to listen less to generals and more to his gut.
 “His true world view, and I have heard him say this over and over, is that we have no business being anywhere over there and we look like fools,” said one longtime friend, who has spoken to Trump repeatedly about the Middle East. “He is inclined to agree with Rand Paul.”
 The challenge for the military will be convincing Trump that despite modest battlefield success the threat posed by terror networks in Afghanistan and Pakistan demands a robust U.S. investment in money and troops. “His military leaders are definitely opposed to the Rand Paul world view,”said Graham. “They understand the value of some of us being over there.”
 Trump and Paul first got to know each other in 2014, when Trump invited Paul to play a round at the Trump International golf course in West Palm Beach, Fla. Trump later gave money to a Utah charity that funded Paul’s regular trips to Haiti and Central America, where Paul, an ophthalmologist, performs cataract surgeries.
 By the 2016 campaign, however, relations had descended into a vicious tit for tat. Paul said at one point that a “speck of dirt” was more qualified to be president than Trump and compared him to Gollum, a slimy power-obsessed creature from J.R. R. Tolkein’s Lord of the Rings series. Trump called Paul “a spoiled brat without a barely functioning brain” and mocked his height at a rally. “Rand, I’ve had you up to here,” Trump said, holding his hand partway up his chest.
 But since Trump’s election, their relationship has blossomed, as they once again became golf partners and the president began calling regularly. “Rand Paul is a very special guy, as far as I’m concerned,” Trump told reporters on April 18, during the negotiations of the Pompeo vote.
 After early opposition, Paul supported the last Senate bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, though the bill nonetheless failed. Over the legal concerns of some staff, Trump also backed a Paul proposal to push the Labor Department to expand the ability of associations to offer their own health plans, without the minimum coverage requirements prescribed by Obamacare.
 In January, Paul introduced a bill to end foreign aid to Pakistan, and spend the money instead on U.S. infrastructure. “Good idea Rand!” Trump tweeted in response.
 The two men still make common cause over their shared opposition to the Iraq and Afghan conflicts, which made them stand out in the 2016 Republican primary.
 “The other day when we were talking, he said it’s probably only he and I of the whole 16 that shared any of this vision of foreign policy that these wars had been a mistake,” Paul said. “That’s something. That’s an amazing opening for people like me who think we have made so many mistakes.”</p><a href=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/in-private-chat-with-senator-trump-hints-at-policy-shift-in-afghanistan--and-a-return-to-isolationism/2018/04/30/e0e9b1ec-4995-11e8-827e-190efaf1f1ee_story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>‘This has gone too far’: In some Senate primaries, Republicans air concerns about Mueller’s investigation</h5><p class=card-text>Robert S. Mueller III leaves a meeting on Capitol Hill on June 21. (J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press)
 
 Republican Senate candidates in competitive primary races have begun to call for an end to the special counsel’s investigation of Russian tampering in the 2016 election, breaking from congressional GOP leaders.
 Candidates in Montana, Indiana, Arizona and Mississippi have gone public since Sunday with their concerns that the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III has gone on too long, expanded too broadly or is motivated by improper partisan interests. All are competing in states President Trump won easily in the 2016 campaign. The comments come as many candidates scramble to win over Republican primary voters by attempting to appear more supportive of Trump’s presidency than their rivals. 
 The Republican Senate candidates are echoing concerns voiced by Trump, who last week called the investigation a “total witch hunt,” “an attack on our country” and “a disgrace,” while charging that Mueller’s team is “the most biased group of people.” The comments run counter to the views of House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), who have both called for Mueller to be left alone to do his job. 
 “This has gone too far. Something has to be done,” said former Maricopa County sheriff Joe Arpaio. Arpaio is running for Senate in Arizona with a campaign centered on his support for Trump, who pardoned him in August for criminal contempt of court. “Whatever action he takes, I’ll back him up, whether he fires these guys or not.” 
 Troy Downing, a GOP candidate in Montana, took to Twitter on Monday to express his displeasure, with syntax that echoed the president. “#Mueller investigation going on too long, no collusion, needs to end!” the tweet read. 
   All three Republican senate candidates in Indiana said Sunday at a debate sponsored by WISH-TV in Indianapolis the Mueller inquiry should end, though they stopped short of calling on Trump to fire Justice Department officials to stop the probe. “Hoosiers want us to get past this Russian issue,” Rep. Luke Messer (R-Ind.) said. “It’s outrageous. It needs to end.”
 The other two candidates, businessman Mike Braun and Rep. Todd Rokita (R-Ind.), also claimed Mueller’s team was politically biased. “He’s not a trusted source. He’s not going to be a neutral umpire,” said Rokita, who has gone after his opponents on the grounds they are not sufficiently supportive of the president. “That probe should end because it has found nothing.” 
 Mueller’s team has so far brought indictments or secured guilty pleas against 19  people, including Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, former national security adviser Michael Flynn, former deputy campaign chairman Rick Gates and 13 Russian nationals.
 Last week, FBI agents raided the offices of Trump’s personal attorney and longtime adviser Michael Cohen as part of an investigation referred to federal prosecutors in New York from Mueller’s team. 
 While the candidates have criticized the Mueller investigation, they have offered few specifics on how it should end.
    State Sen. Chris McDaniel speaks with a supporter while sons Chamberlain, 6, left, and Cambridge, 11, listen as he announces a U.S. Senate bid on Feb. 28. (Rogelio V. Solis/Associated Press)
 
 In Mississippi, state Sen. Chris McDaniel said the probe should be “expedited,” though he stopped short of calling on Trump to try to fire anyone to short-circuit the probe. McDaniel, who has been hostile to Senate GOP leaders, is running for the seat currently held by Cindy Hyde-Smith (R), who replaced Republican Thad Cochran when he stepped down amid health problems.
 “We need to find ways to put, if possible, deadlines on the investigation itself. So, put simply, we don’t want a person on a witch hunt, indefinitely,” McDaniel said. “It’s in the best interest of the Trump presidency to allow the investigation to conclude.”
 A clear majority of Americans support Mueller’s probe, according to a recent poll by The Washington Post and ABC News. This includes nearly 7 in 10 who support Mueller’s focus on possible collusion with Russia, 64 percent who say they want him to investigate Trump’s business activities and 58 percent who want him to investigate alleged payments by associates to silence women who say they had affairs with the president before he took office.
  The same poll found a majority of Republicans, who make up about one in four poll respondents, oppose the Mueller investigation. Just 43 percent of Republicans support Mueller’s collusion investigation, 34 percent support the investigation of Trump’s business activities and 29 percent supporting the investigation of potential hush money to women. 
 Senate candidates who do not face serious primary challenges have tended to take a different approach to questions about the Mueller investigation in recent weeks.
    Florida Gov. Rick Scott holds a Senate campaign rally at the Interstate Beverage Corp. in Hialeah, Fla., on April 10. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)
 
 “I wouldn’t dismiss him,” said Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) over the weekend of Mueller. Asked whether he would support a Senate bill to make it more difficult for the president to end the special counsel investigation, Scott did not give a direct answer. 
 “It needs to be complete transparency,” he said of the investigation. “And we need to make sure, whatever investigation it is, the facts get out there.”
 Republican Sen. Dean Heller, who is running for reelection in Nevada, told reporters in a conference call last week he does not want the president to fire Mueller, though he hopes the probe wraps up soon. “I hope he (Trump) doesn’t do it,” Heller said, according to a report in the Pahrump Valley Times. 
 In a Monday telephone interview with The Post, North Dakota Senate candidate Rep. Kevin Cramer (R), who is running against Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D), said he feels “some of the president’s frustration” with the investigation. Cramer, a close Trump ally, did not embrace one of the labels Trump has used to disparage the Mueller probe. 
 “I don’t get the sense he’s on a witch hunt, per se. In fact, if anything I get the sense that maybe he is starting to see an end to some of this,” Cramer said. While Mueller is “trying to stay in the lane,” Cramer said, he has grown frustrated with the “mission creep” of the special counsel and “the lack of accountability.”
 Read more at PowerPost</p><a href=https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/this-has-gone-too-far-in-some-senate-primaries-republicans-air-concerns-about-muellers-investigation/2018/04/17/d0c6e3fe-41a5-11e8-8569-26fda6b404c7_story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>Paul Ryan's Republican Party swept away by a Trumpian revolution</h5><p class=card-text>Washington: As he announced his exit from public life, House Speaker Paul Ryan tried hard to show appreciation for the man who took the Republican Party from his grasp and transformed it into something else.

"I'm grateful to the President," Ryan, said four times in two minutes, with slight grammatical variations, in a news conference on Wednesday at the US Capitol, noting that Donald Trump's 2016 victory gave Republicans the power to cut taxes and increase military spending.

But the praise did little to remove the shadow Trump casts over the end of Ryan's career now that he has decided to forego a campaign for reelection. The Trumpian revolution, which Ryan had long resisted, appeared to have claimed another victory, dispatching another occasional critic and reaffirming the President's growing hold on a shrinking electoral coalition.

"Speaker Ryan is an embodiment of a particular kind of optimistic, pro-growth, pro-free market inclusive conservatism," said Michael Steele, a former top adviser to Republican speaker John Boehner. "And that is a very different feel and tone of where the party is going under President Trump."

Ryan's decision to abruptly throw in the towel, just six months before the mid-terms, is likely to only further Trump's control of the party. Republicans strategists worry that it will also make it harder for the GOP to hold onto the House, a prospect that seems less likely after a recent Democratic victory in a special election outside of Pittsburgh.

Not only are donors making clear they are more skeptical of the effort to retain the House, but the sudden departure of Ryan suggests the Republican ideological tent will continue to shrink. Including Ryan and Florida Republican Dennis Ross, who also announced his retirement on Wednesday, 46 Republicans have retired or said they will not run for reelection, and those ranks are likely to grow further in the coming weeks.

A former vice-presidential nominee, the highest ranking Republican during Trump's rise and once his party's ideological standard-bearer, Ryan has spent the last two years resisting, minimising and ultimately conceding to a Trumpian revolution he could neither contain nor control.

Ryan's brand of politics, an uplifting fiscal conservatism rooted in his admiration of his former boss, Jack Kemp, seemed ascendant as recently as 2012, when Mitt Romney chose to add him to the presidential ticket. Four years later, as Trump was gaining popularity, Ryan warned the country of the divisive tactics the president continues to employ.

"Instead of playing to your anxieties, we can appeal to your aspirations. Instead of playing the identity politics of 'our base' and 'their base,' we unite people around ideas and principles," Ryan said in a March 2016 speech on the state of American politics. "We don't resort to scaring you, we dare to inspire you."

But Trump still won, not just the nomination but the White House, with a campaign that cast immigrants as inherently devious snakes and encouraged public displays of anger at protesters and the press.

The protests Ryan offered rarely had an impact. He denounced Trump's comments about a federal judge as "racist," condemned Trump's approach to trade, defended immigration as "a thing to celebrate," and continued to fight for reductions in entitlement spending long after Trump promised no cuts to Medicare and Social Security. As recently as January, Ryan described Trump's vulgar description of some majority-minority nations as "shithole" countries as "very unfortunate" and "unhelpful."

But throughout it all, Trump's power within the party continued to grow, as Ryan's waned. National polls now show Trump enjoys dominant approval ratings among Republicans, with 86 per cent of party voters now supporting the President in the latest Quinnipiac Poll, a dramatic increase from his position before the 2016 elections.

"Republicans have united around him and his agenda at least up to this point," said Whit Ayers, a Republican pollster. "If you look at positions that Republicans as a whole have taken in the Trump era, positions they held as recently as two years ago no longer hold the same popularity."

Polls have shown increasing Republican support for expanding Social Security, a position closer to Trump than Ryan, as well as declining Republican support for free trade agreements, which were once a cornerstone of conservative economic thinking.

At the same time, Ryan has struggled to hold together a fractious GOP caucus, initially failing in his attempt to pass a repeal of former president Barack Obama's healthcare law. Ryan's approval among Republican voters now hovers around 7 in 10, and his overall approval rating is below that of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi in some polls.

Democrats began to evoke Ryan in campaign spots, seeing him as an easier target than Trump in some districts. "Paul Ryan is the single least popular political leader in the country," said Jeb Fain, a spokesman for the Democrat-supporting House Majority PAC, before Ryan announced his retirement. "Across demographics and districts, Ryan's less popular than Trump, and it comes down to policy."

In recent months, Ryan has generally been more frank about the tensions of his job in private. At a donor retreat last week in Austin, Texas, Ryan interviewed White House Chief of Staff John Kelly before a group of donors, according to a person who attended the event. At points, they seemed to be commiserating about the difficulty of working in the current political environment.

"The speaker and the chief of staff both talked like they had left office," said one donor who attended the event, speaking anonymously because the proceedings were private. "The speaker thanked the chief of staff for being one of the sane guys in office." (At another point, this person said, Kelly said that when he gets an outside the box request from the President likely to cause concern on Capitol Hill, the first person he calls is "Paul or Mitch," a reference to Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, to ensure they are informed.)

House Republicans will also now be forced to debate Ryan's replacement as their leader, even as they run for reelection. "This move by Ryan will set off an intramural food fight and take all eyes off the endgame of maintaining a pro-growth majority," said Scott Reed, a political strategist at the US Chamber of Commerce, who is planning millions in spending to defend Republican control in the House and Senate.

Corry Bliss, who runs the Congressional Leadership Fund an outside group focused on keeping Republican control of the House, says Ryan told him he'll keep raising money and will actually have more time now to do so.

"Paul Ryan's commitment to protecting the House majority is greater today than it was yesterday," Bliss said. "He told me personally that he'll do whatever it takes to help CLF protect the Republican majority."

For his part, Ryan maintained that his departure would have no impact on the 2018 landscape. "I really don't think a person's race for Congress is going to hinge on whether Paul Ryan's speaker or not," Ryan said. "So I really don't think it affects it."

It was an optimistic projection for a man who struggled to make his mark with an optimistic vision for the country.</p><a href=http://watoday.com.au/world/paul-ryans-republican-party-swept-away-by-a-trumpian-revolution-20180412-p4z982.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div><div class="card margin10"><div class=card-body><h5 class=card-subtitle mb-2 text-muted>Ryan's GOP swept away by a Trumpian revolution</h5><p class=card-text>As he announced his exit from public life, Speaker Paul Ryan tried hard to show appreciation for the man who took the Republican Party from his grasp and transformed it into something else.

"I'm grateful to the president," Ryan, R-Wis., said four times in two minutes, with slight grammatical variations, in a news conference Wednesday at the U.S. Capitol, noting that Donald Trump's 2016 victory gave Republicans the power to cut taxes and increase military spending.

But the praise did little to remove the shadow Trump casts over the end of Ryan's career now that he has decided to forego a campaign for reelection. The Trumpian revolution, which Ryan had long resisted, appeared to have claimed another victory, dispatching another occasional critic and reaffirming the president's growing hold on a shrinking electoral coalition.

"Speaker Ryan is an embodiment of a particular kind of optimistic, pro-growth, pro-free market inclusive conservatism," said Michael Steele, a former top adviser to House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio. "And that is a very different feel and tone of where the party is going under President Trump."

Ryan's decision to abruptly throw in the towel, just six months before the midterms, is likely to only further Trump's control of the party. Republicans strategists worry that it will also make it harder for the GOP to hold onto the House, a prospect that seems less likely after a recent Democratic victory in a special election outside of Pittsburgh.

Not only are donors making clear they are more skeptical of the effort to retain the House, but the sudden departure of Ryan suggests the Republican ideological tent will continue to shrink. Including Ryan and Rep. Dennis Ross, R-Fla., who also announced his retirement Wednesday, 46 Republicans have retired or said they will not run for reelection, and those ranks are likely to grow further in the coming weeks.

A former vice-presidential nominee, the highest ranking Republican during Trump's rise and once his party's ideological standard-bearer, Ryan has spent the last two years resisting, minimizing and ultimately conceding to a Trumpian revolution he could neither contain nor control.

Ryan's brand of politics, an uplifting fiscal conservatism rooted in his admiration of his former boss, Jack Kemp, seemed ascendant as recently as 2012, when Mitt Romney chose to add him to the presidential ticket. Four years later, as Trump was gaining popularity, Ryan warned the country of the divisive tactics the president continues to employ.

"Instead of playing to your anxieties, we can appeal to your aspirations. Instead of playing the identity politics of 'our base' and 'their base,' we unite people around ideas and principles," Ryan said in a March 2016 speech on the state of American politics. "We don't resort to scaring you, we dare to inspire you."

But Trump still won, not just the nomination but the White House, with a campaign that cast immigrants as inherently devious snakes and encouraged public displays of anger at protesters and the press.

The protests Ryan offered rarely had an impact. He denounced Trump's comments about a federal judge as "racist," condemned Trump's approach to trade, defended immigration as "a thing to celebrate," and continued to fight for reductions in entitlement spending long after Trump promised no cuts to Medicare and Social Security. As recently as January, Ryan described Trump's vulgar description of some majority-minority nations as "sh------" countries as "very unfortunate" and "unhelpful."

But throughout it all, Trump's power within the party continued to grow, as Ryan's waned. National polls now show Trump enjoys dominant approval ratings among Republicans, with 86 percent of party voters now supporting the president in the latest Quinnipiac Poll, a dramatic increase from his position before the 2016 elections.

"Republicans have united around him and his agenda at least up to this point," said Whit Ayers, a Republican pollster. "If you look at positions that Republicans as a whole have taken in the Trump era, positions they held as recently as two years ago no longer hold the same popularity."

Polls have shown increasing Republican support for expanding Social Security, a position closer to Trump than Ryan, as well as declining Republican support for free trade agreements, which were once a cornerstone of conservative economic thinking.

At the same time, Ryan has struggled to hold together a fractious GOP caucus, initially failing in his attempt to pass a repeal of President Obama's health care law. Ryan's approval among Republican voters now hovers around 7 in 10, and his overall approval rating is below that of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi in some polls.

Democrats began to evoke Ryan in campaign spots, seeing him as an easier target than Trump in some districts. "Paul Ryan is the single least popular political leader in the country," said Jeb Fain, a spokesman for the Democrat-supporting House Majority PAC, before Ryan announced his retirement. "Across demographics and districts, Ryan's less popular than Trump, and it comes down to policy."

In recent months, Ryan has generally been more frank about the tensions of his job in private. At a donor retreat last week in Austin, Texas, Ryan interviewed White House Chief of Staff John Kelly before a group of donors, according to a person who attended the event. At points, they seemed to be commiserating about the difficulty of working in the current political environment.

"The speaker and the chief of staff both talked like they had left office," said one donor who attended the event, speaking anonymously because the proceedings were private. "The speaker thanked the chief of staff for being one of the sane guys in office." (At another point, this person said, Kelly said that when he gets an outside the box request from the president likely to cause concern on Capitol Hill, the first person he calls is "Paul or Mitch," a reference to Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, to ensure they are informed.)</p><a href=http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/politics/ct-ryan-republicans-trump-20180411-story.html class=card-link>Read More</a></div></div>